Individual code files:
act_comm.c - Language code, group code, ignore command, many misc. changes
act_inf0.c - More detailed messaged and informational commands, added innates such as layhands, advanced
             coin-related commands by Lithos.
act_move.c - Tons of changes, including movement scripts for mobs, etc.
act_obj.c - Equipment use code changed abundantly, added the pour command, artefact tracking.
act_wiz.c - A multitude of changes, mainly enhanced statting and information commands.
bit.c - Many changes, added bit information, and changes to bitvector data.
const.c - Added age and GSN's for mobs, many stat changes, added skills and spells, and monk framework
db.c - A few functional changes, mostly additions of skill GSN's and related stuff.
event.c - A few spell event additions, and a function to string event names by type#
fight.c - Many combat details changed or enhanced, innate abilities for elementals, rewritten headbutt, added
          throw code, many other details.
fraglist.c - Almost all fraglist-related code rewritten
gamble.c - No significant changes, just changes in variables to match code-wide changes.
handler.c - A few functional changes, including the last_fun stuff.
interp.c - Many added commands, some additional logging
magic.c - Quite a few functional changes to spellcasting.
map.c - Better map support, visibility code changes.
mem.c - No significant changes, just last_fun stuff and changes to match code-wide changes.
save.c - Added variables to pfile.
songs.c - No significant changes, just changes to match code-wide changes
spec_mob.c - Vastly expanded mob spell lists, more efficient logic algorithms, smarter mobs.
spec_obj.c - Many added procs, most of which are Basternae specific and need to be removed.
spells.c - A vast and inexplicable number of spell additions and changes, many balance changes.
ssm.c - No significant changes, just commenting.
string.c - No significant changes, just changes to match code-wide changes
tables.c - A few updates, primarily moving clan functions to act_clan.c
track.c - A few semantics and message changes, justice mobs can force criminals to land.
traps.c - No significant changes, just changes to match code-wide changes
update.c - Many functional changes, including new exp tables and poison code
wiznet.c - Addition of the quests, hunting, hating, and lithos spam channel.  flags channel is now called crimes.
vehicle.c - Definition of a few basic vehicle commands.

/area:

Updated help files: help.are, helpspell.are, olc.hlp, and screens.are
Updated Limbo.are
Added boat1.are
No changes to makezone
Added more information on surface maps.

/clans:

No changes.

/classes:

Eliminated the unused directory and moved all files to /classes.
Many changes to currently implemented classes.
Elimination of Basternae 2 class information.

/doc

Added functions.txt

/mobprogs:

Added a few more examples (from vkobolds.are).

/src:

No changes yet, many to come.

/sys:

Added some blank templates for the various data files.
